So the suggestions that I'm making again are ones that are helping mine may also help yours. There's kind of general strategies to keep in mind, because the importance is that the text is always legible, so the contrast between the text and the background needs to be established and firm and adjustable depending on the circumstances, right? So White works well against all these colors here. But if they didn't, we have a drop shadow that you can sort of see against the latter colors. So if this were a wider background is still you can still have some good definition to the text here. So we made some nice changes through this CSS, repeating a font family choice, making a nice large font size for the banner name. The Bold will help if the text needs further definition, and the text shadow is what's helping the most here, right? Okay, so that's banner name. So that's my proper name. Here has been a style, but the the kind of title or roles that I play, the hats that I wear are not, is not defined or contrasting sufficiently. So let's grab the next bit of CSS under individual text elements, grabbing the closing curly bracket down through up through the period before banner. So dot banner title, copy that, paste it outside the banner. Names closing curly bracket, and it's the same instead of consideration. So color, font family, font size, font weight, style, etc, but the choices are different, so they have to be defined separately, right? So the font size is different, the font weight is different, the font style is different. And that's pretty nice. That's working pretty well. So I'll zoom out, put more into context. So and that's working pretty well. That's pretty satisfying, right? I might even go larger on both, because we have this is a big space. Might as well if you're going to have something big, go big, go big, or go home. So they have this quite a bit larger still. So let's do let's see what happens if we bump both up, just for giggles. So I will change the our font name to five, which is bigger, but not even that much bigger, and say, we'll have the font title be 3.5 that's louder and prouder. I think that's, that's, that's not, that's not so bad for this desktop view. I think that's, that's more, more confident. Maybe, you know, size is more Bold. Bold is more confident. Confidence is what we want to communicate in our websites, so in our design, but also in our content. So maybe this is one way of starting off on a confident note, is to have big, proud text in the in the banner area. Okay, so let's see what happens next in our tutorial. While we're thinking about it, let's go ahead and let's go ahead and go to GitHub Desktop and commit our changes. And things are duplicated in both places. So let's create this is called Creating a fade effect. I've included this in the tutorial, not because it necessarily make a big difference with mine, so we'll see it in practice with mine. I'll go ahead and code this with y'all, but this may not, it may not be as essential for me as it may be for you, given the picture that you're using, right? Because, again, you want the the image to be strong, to be powerful, to communicate something vividly. But also you wanted, at the same time to have space, to have room and large in the larger region of the picture, to have some have the space be more neutral, more flattened. That creates a kind of negative space the text can go on on top of nicely, right? So that, because I have a it's flatter here, it's less texture, because the colors are a little more uniform through here, this lays in well here, so I don't, I don't need to flatten this so much. I could, and I will, but it's not essential for my picture. It might be more essential for your picture, given how busy the background is. If the background is busy, then you want to, somehow, you want to flatten, subdue, rather. Maybe it's a better way of putting it a certain portion of the of the of the image, so that the text will read more, even more sharply on top of it. So what we're doing now is we're going to, we're not going to, so don't copy and paste all of this. Right? So don't, don't go from the. Read it down to curly brackets here, because we're modifying the bat what already exists for the banner div. So we want to get what we have additional content we want to include. So let's grab this much, and I'll pause for a second. So I'm leaving the the braces alone. I'm leaving the first two lines alone and copying just from multiple backgrounds down through PNG. End, quote, brother C, semicolon. So I'm going to go in back inside my banner CSS, so it's not a separate a separate section now it's but it's part of the what already exists for the banner and I will.

So that does make a difference, right? So it is. It's become more because of the settings of the gradient that's been set that's been put into place. It is becoming darkening and becoming more more opaque black. As we move from left to right, it darkens more rapidly. So the blues and the purples kind of happen in the small moment here. But then also it goes to the original black. It's looking more solar now maybe, which is kind of cool. But in terms of there being more definition for the text. There's no question about that, if you want to, if you want to, sort of compare the contrasted difference here. Let me just turn off. Turn on, turn off this section here.

So that's the version we start off with originally. This is the version we have to work with, with the linear gradient in place, and I will sit on it. I know, I know what, where I can come. I know where I can return if I want to get rid of it, if I want to go back to the more colorful, more blue background in the right side of the image. But because it is so strong and the gradient is working pretty clearly, I'll go ahead and keep it for the time being, right. But this definitely works. So even as as we as we reset the browser, it gets cropped on both sides. The text is moving into the more, more yellow side of the of the image. But the drop shadow still keeps it nice and legible, even as the background lightens. But this is almost planetary and solar, so I kind of, I'm actually the more I look at the more that I kind of like it. So one thing, once you get these new instructions in place, play with these values and sort of see what you see, what you like or don't like. So these are not prescribed rules. This is part of the creative freedom. And then, as we said before, the creative freedom we have is considerable and impossible to fully utilize, which is part of can be maddening at times because there's so much creative room, but use it judiciously in the interest of legibility, in the interest of visual interest in the visual, visual appeal. So let's go on to the next concern. So this is more review. So the things that we've already put into place for responsiveness, without getting into the full sort of world of responsive design. So if you were height 70% certainly 70 VHS, 70% of the current screen height. Setting the margins, as we have in a couple places by percentages, is also kind of prepares for responsive design. Flexbox helps to position things flexibly in relationship to other elements, as things resize. And then images we have had the image sort of centered, so that you change the browser size and get cropped from both sides, not just from one side or the other. So it's we're keeping that pinpoint in the middle. So that's all part of responsive design too. So it's not, it doesn't include media queries, which we'll get to next, next week, which are really cool, a little bit of a learning curve attached to them, but very cool and very helpful, and ultimately, coding wise, very simple. It's not a matter of coding something new. It's a matter of modifying code further. So we'll see that. So it sounds kind of computer sciencey and scary with those with those that phrase media query sounds daunting, but coding wise is actually pretty straightforward. It's just a matter of understanding what, what's happening, when and why we put them into place. Okay, okay, so we're getting close to the end, one last step to consider that's happening for me. It may not be happening for you, but let's just assume it is for because I need to take care of it for myself. So I have my navigation in place. I have my my footer in place. I have my banner in place. Yes, but notice that there's for some reason now, with these additional elements in place, the width of my navigation bar, which was set to 100% is wider than the width with my banner, which is also set to 100% so something odd is happening here. Rolling vertically is fine. We expect to do that, but to do that and also be expected to do this is bad design. People are patient to scroll this way. That's part of the convention, but scrolling this way is frustrating and will discourage further interaction. So let's take care of that with Step Six of the tutorial. So as a matter of adding one line so that we have to the navigation and footer, we need to add a box sizing command called border box, which will prevent elements from exceeding 100% 100% width. Because we have nav and footer set up separately. We'll go ahead and put that in separately for both. So inside the nav styling, I'm adding box, hyphen sizing. Inside the footer styling, I add the same line, box, hyphen style, styling, box, hyphen sizing, and let's see if that makes a difference and problem solve. So there's no need for or distracting horizontal scrolling. It's just all vertical as it should be, right? So all I did was to my nav and footer boxes or CSS, I added this one. What I have in line 40 line 41 here, in both places, both, both in footer, and my line 41 and so it's both places. Line now, what's my line nine here? So just inside the nav styling, between the Curt braces for nav and between the braces for footer, and it probably shouldn't matter where it falls. I'm adding it to the end because it's the most recent update to that CSS. But if you if it came up higher it shouldn't, it should still probably work. Okay, so let's go ahead and break here. There's more coming soon, which will be adding multiple pages to our site. So we've made a homepage for this next next project, this next assignment, and so we'll add then pages that will link to it, so sub pages for this larger site that will have separate related content. We'll move on to other things and make further progress. So.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
