Hey, welcome back before we get into the substance of our next round of considerations with web development, namely CSS cascading style sheets, I want to show you something real quick. So I have started updating my creative portfolio. So not professional, but the portfolio that highlights some of my creative activity over the last several years. So it's been overdue for for an upgrade. And this is the content. This is the this is the view of the HTML side of things. So this is what you're seeing here. Is built entirely on HTML, and so it's got poetry to link to, it's got interactive literary work to link to, has music to link to, so it's got some really great sort of linked links content. But I hope you'll agree the visual presentation is atrocious or insufficient, I mean, to kind of get and keep the viewers attention, as we've been trying to do for somebody who doesn't know me, they wouldn't take me seriously with this, with the site, okay? So HTML has structured the content, it's arranged. The content has embedded images, has provided links. So all they got all that important stuff, but in terms of making it personal and unique and warm and inviting and actually even more visually organized, we need something else. So let me show you one difference then. So this is the view of my site based solely on, entirely on HTML. And this I do one quick change here, add this CSS back. Here's the site with CSS, so you can sort of see the difference. You can see the power of CSS. So there's a sense of style. So the this the first s of CSS, Cascading Style Sheet, the style that you're seeing, the unique sort of appearance, the use of color, the arrangement of elements in the boxes, side by side boxes instead of stacking on top of each other. All that is happening through CSS. HTML is wonderful, is essential, but we can't do this kind of work or better work than this. And this is, this is fine without the assistance. And so understanding of what CSS does. So that's what this week is we'll be focusing on, is getting you is really advancing your skills considerably by delving into the wonderful world of cascading style sheets, and we'll define that as we move into our next videos. You.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
