Hey, a couple more quick things as we wrap up our HTML training. We in the last video, we backed up our local folder to our GitHub repository, our remote repository. Important step, it's gonna review one part though that we did in the original GitHub tutorial that is relevant. Now, since we're out, we are updating our files online. So I'm gonna go to github.com our repository view there, I want to remind you about the settings you need to have so you can actually see it properly posted online, so not off your local machine, but actually properly off the GitHub servers. So if you go to settings and go to pages, so this, again, this should be review of the original GitHub video. So want to make sure that you have you're deploying from a branch under source, that your branches, the main branch, and the root folder in that branch. And so your address should look like this, right here, where I have tsu, hyphen, C, Dex, you'll have your username. So this is the username for my GitHub account that I'm using currently, right so this right here as your username, which is different than mine, should go right here before the period. So we all should have username.github.io/ 60970, so the second half is the same for all of us. The only difference should be the username placed here. Okay, so you click on that, and that is then the live sites. So it's not being viewed locally. It's being served to us through the GitHub servers, online at this web address. Learning Curve alert. So we when you're reviewing your work, you're trying to make updates between your local files and your remote files, and you're in front of what you're seeing, where you want to make sure you understand which version you're looking at in the browser, because this version here in the browser view looks like this version here in The browser view, which looks like this version here, and they are all identical content, but they're being shown to us through different locations. So this first version is being shown to us directly from our local folder. So if you have file, colon, slash, slash, slash, users, your username, documents, etc, it begins with file or the letter C, colon. If you're a PC, PC user, then that's the pathway to the files on your local machine. So you'll see them directly out of this folder. So that's version one, version one of three that we need to distinguish. Version two. When it begins like this, the number may be different, but it'll be begin numerically. That's the version being viewed through VS code through live server. So the full browser review of VS code live server of your project, right? So if we were to make changes in VS code, then those changes would show up here in real time. So then version three, right again. This all looks the same because everything is up to date. But this is the web address that is a live web address. So if you sent this to send this one to me, or your version of this to me, I'd be able to see it because you've met, you've you've committed and pushed it remotely, so the files are current on the remote server. Remote Server is set to public so that anyone with this address can get to those files without any special permissions beyond what you've already set up. If you give me, if you send me this version here, I will not have access to that because that's only being served up through VS code locally. If you send me this version here, same thing, I will not have access to this because it's being served up only to you locally, right? So the only version that I'll have access to to enjoy what you've been developing, it'll be the version that that begins with your username here. Okay, so this is what's shared with with employers, with classmates, with instructors, with friends, with grandparents. This is, again, this is just for your eyes only. Basically your preview during your development in VS code. And then this version here, again, is a node. The way of seeing your local files. Okay? So visually here, the difference is not necessarily going to be in the content here, the difference will be the which version you're looking at will be all distinguished by what you're seeing in the address box in the browser you.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
