Okay, so let's add some links. Essential. It's our first moment of actually engaging with hypertext. So hypertext is text that is interactive and dynamic, as opposed to static print text, right? So hypertext is dynamic text, interactive text, so the syntax is a little bit different, little bit longer than we had with with the other kinds of tagging, but it's also pretty straightforward. I mean, once you get the hang of it, and very consistent. So once you see the pattern, you'll see the pattern again and again and again to reinforce it. It would be nice if the tag for the link started with the letter L. It does not. L is used for lists, so, o, l, u, l, ordered, unordered lists. So we need to use a different letter to create our links, and that letter is the letter A, so where it doesn't make as much initial sense as B for bold or I for italics or P for paragraph. It does make sense because A stands for anchor, and so by creating this anchor, a anchor, we're basically linking or connecting our document to another document sort of or tethering or anchoring two documents together. But let's make a link to TCU website. So a, open, Curt, a space, HR, E, F, H, R, E, F equals, quote, unquote, HTTPS. Colon, slash, slash. You. Slash, slash, www.tcu.edu, tcu.edu and quotes, close, Curt, and then between the opening tag and the closing tag I'll type in this will serve as a link to TCU websites. Okay, they came all typo, and you can see from the simple preview that the text is appearing as we typed it, but it's also blue, so formatted differently because it's kind of needs to contrast the non linkable text here, but blue means that it's probably working. So let's go ahead and test it. So I'll go ahead and click this link here. It does work. So pretty effective. Let me reopen my preview something unexpected happened, but the link itself is working. Let me go ahead and open the browser review, just to have that handy. I Yeah.

So here's the link again, and here's the resulting action of these use website opening up. So pretty cool, pretty easy. So let me explain the syntax a little bit to kind of seal that down a bit more. So a stand for anchor. You're anchoring two documents together, two sites to paid, two web pages together, HR, EF, stand for hypertext reference. By asking the viewer to click on a link, you're referring them to someone else's source. I refer you through this link to TCU web page. I refer you through hyper text to this web page. Okay, just to practice the syntax, let's do another, another example. So it's also a href equals. In this case, I'll do the HTTPS, which we'll need to include, so the full web address, and I'll try guitar center.com Okay, so, so the link is here, but notice what's happening here. They're not even though they're in separate lines here, they're not in separate lines here, right? Because they haven't been distinguished. The texts have been distinguished as being separate from each other. They're both linked, but then I tag to be also separate from each other. So all we need to do is then to put them, each sentence into its own paragraph. And even though it's working already, we can do to go ahead and do the same thing here. So copy, cut and paste the closing tag outside the closing a tag. Okay, and we'll test that out. And there's a new deals added at Guitar Center, which. Was good to know about.

So there's a usability consideration we need to sort of talk about for a second. So the goal here is to make your content accessible and attractive, so people want to hang out with your content as long as possible, to sustain the viewers attention and interest in your content, so they leave your site for a moment through a link that you've given them. You want them to come back to your site. Okay, so here's your site. So notice what happens here in this tab here, when we click on one of our links, we go, we go to the tab. Content is replaced by new site content, which makes sense. But if I want to go back to your site, and I force of habit, click on and close the tab instead of, instead of back spacing here, I leave your site entirely. So I did sort of returning to your site by by click closing the tab, I'm leaving your site entirely because the new site replaced your, your your site in the same tab. So if we do this again, but we add inside the closing carrier bracket, target equals, quote, unquote, underscore, blank. So if you do that and preview the page,

notice what happens here now. So T's use page still opens up as we desire. But if I say, Okay, thanks, I got the point I need from this page. I want to go back to your site. I close, close the new tab that the page opened into to go back to the original so let's go ahead and add the target equals blank to both links. So if you were if this were referring to a page in your own site, you wouldn't add this. But for since we're going to external resources, it makes sense to add it to external links refresh the page to make sure that changes are taking place. Test Guitar Center close out of this tab, and then I'm back back to where you want me to return, which is your site. So this is part of the ambition to keep, to get to the reader's attention, but to sustain their attention. So you want to make it easier for them to get back to your content. If they're they're curious about finding out more of what you have there. Okay, so I'm going to pause here, and I'm going to end the session, and then I will come back and do images and such. I'm.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
