So let's go ahead and add some images. So while, while I was setting things up for this section, I went ahead and created an images folder and put some images into it. So what I want you to do right now, you can pause the video to do so yourself is create a new folder. So there's in the file explorer, you'll see little folder icon on the plus sign, just type in the word images, all lowercase, no spaces. So create a folder called images. Was like, like, what I have here, and then put into the folder some random pictures you don't mind using some playing with. So JPEGs, gifts, PNGs are all fine Web. PS don't work well, won't work in the bigger picture. PSDs will be too big. Tips will be too big. So then the nice, universal file types of GIFs, PNGs or JPEGs would be great. You can get there from easily, quickly, from GitHub, desktop I go to Show in Finder to create a folder here, put some images inside the folder there, and then come back. Ready to go. So go ahead and pause the video if you needed it, some time to do so and make sure it's stuff you're comfortable playing with, so no nothing that you wouldn't otherwise want to post online. Okay, so I'm assuming you have paused long enough to populate your images folder with a couple images, so I'm tabbing down between two paragraphs. So we want to insert what's called an empty tag, because we're inserting information rather than tagging information. In this case, we can't use i by itself, because I is reserved for italics, which we've already seen in a previous section of the video, but we can use IMG, which is short for image. It's a pretty extensible abbreviation for the word image. So open, Curt, IMG, space, src, which is short for source, source. So we need to let the browser know where the images to be found was, was a source of information. So I go, go inside the images folder which we have the option to include. Then you choose the picture you want to you want to insert at this point. Then you close the carrot, so open carrot img space img for image, space SRC for source. So typos make a difference. So if you have SCR it won't work. So it has to be SRC for source. Equals quote, unquote images, slash file name, and again, make sure it's a PNG, JPEG or GIF. Okay, so let's see how that looks. So the results will be wildly different based on the images we're using. So my results here will resemble but be still different than your results, because the sizing of the image and the content of the image will be different. But it's working. So two bass players very important to me, Paul McCartney and Getty Lee. I hope you know their work. So this isn't so bad. It's inserted between two paragraphs as I wanted it to. It's bringing some color, some joy, some contrast to the page. But I'd like it to take out the whole space here. So that's my result here. Give the image that I have to play with. Your result might might also be working, but the image might be so big as pushing out the other content off the page. So mine's a little bit smaller, smaller than I want, so yours might be much bigger than you want. So either way, do the same things as I'm about to do. So inside the the image tag, type in the word width equals 100% and then see what happens there. That's better. So understand what the 100% stands for. So it's not saying size it to 100% of the original width of the file. So if it's 3000 pixels, make sure it stays at a 3000 pixels. It's not saying that. It's saying make sure the image fills 100% of the width of the available browser space, right? So it goes the full width of the page. But notice, and this is important, and this is helpful and a good thing. If we resize, resize the browser, the image resizes too. So look looks good on a laptop. Look good, look fairly good still on a mobile device. So setting the width to a percentage, in this case, 100% you. Will help to ensure that your site will will be equally appealing on multiple devices. So again, we're anticipating some that we'll get into mobile design, so responsive design, fluid design, so the content kind of molds itself to the container that it finds itself in. So to make the point about responsiveness and why working with percentages is better than working with fixed pixels. Say, I Say I want it to be 1000 pixels. Or no, let's say 2000 pixels.

Well, first of all, it's too big, right for my space. But also notice it doesn't respond because there's a fixed pixel width, but if we have it more like 100%

what counts for 100% is changing because the width of the browser is changing. So responsive design is part of user experience, or helps to enhance user experience. So we're we're building things with that in mind. So we're building towards something here. I'm.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
