Hey, y'all so thankfully for all concerned, this class is not a lecture based class, but there are few, so a few intro concepts we need to discuss to kind of lay the groundwork for what's to come.

One such concept is actually an unpacking of an assumption we make when we talk about school writing in school, right? Most of us have learned how to write through school. Writing in school helps us to learn how to write, which I do believe it takes place in a very positive and constructive way,

but it's happening under very artificial circumstances. And I need, and I think it's important, to foreground and unpack what that means and what's involved, to sort of understand, then what the next step is when it comes to web authoring, which is why we're here for this course. One thing to unpack or to foreground is the fact that I am paid as the teacher for this class, right? You knew that. I you knew that. Of course, it's obvious, but that affects my relationship to you, right? I love working at TCU. I love working with students and students in general. I appreciate and respect my salary could be more, but whatever,

but take away the salary part, and my love for teaching, or love for TCU would change, or at least my love for TCU, which would be true for all, or the majority of your teachers, I mean your your school teachers. If you went to a private school, primarily you went to a public school, primarily, you're being paid, but you're being trained, rather or educated by

paid professionals who

expect to be paid for each class they teach, each semester they teach. Take that away, and they're less inclined to give you feedback. Another dynamic to unpack is the relationship we have with our peers as we expect to get peer feedback.

So our peers may be our best friends, maybe our roommates, maybe someone we met in this class that we really enjoy and look forward to seeing, but they like in a way that's similar to your instructor. They are also compelled to give you feedback, and they may not choose to otherwise, right? They're compelled not by salary, not by financial compensation, but they're compelled by grade.

So I mentioned all this not to disrespect academic writing. Again, I've been a writing teacher the better part of my career, so I have great

affection for teaching writing and students learning writing, and the importance of the of that relationship, but we should be frank and be candid about the parameters and the artificiality that does come into play for this dynamic to take place in school. So what we're trying to do now is to move forward and think about, okay, well, that's how I've been taught to write. Let me think about ways of writing after my school year, my education is formally over.

So how do when I have audiences that are non academic, how do I communicate with them?

What strategies do I need to develop that will engage them because they're no longer captive to me or compelled to give me feedback?

What can I do to help give my ideas a lifespan that exceeds the moment of composition, right? So once it's graded, or once, once it's submitted, it actually has a lifespan and doesn't, isn't forgotten once it's turned in. And since I'm talking to strangers, people who don't know how smart I am or how good I am, or how important my ideas are,

how do I attract and sustain their attention? So how do we make our ideas literally appealing, and I mean that in the most literal sense. So to achieve this new goal of engaging with non academic audiences, let's broaden our concept of argument, right of persuasion, of working with and convincing others that our ideas are valuable and have application in their lives.

One thing that we need to also being candid and also thinking practically and strategically, one thing we have to admit is that we can't simply be a good writer, that that by itself, is fundamental, is essential, is difficult, right? So it's a skill that needs to be practiced. And practice, practice, practice and practiced as often as possible, but that skill, by itself, is not sufficient to engage audiences that don't already know us and are compelled to respond to us. The

text that we produce also need to be thoughtfully designed, and by design means visually organized, as a sense of visual hierarchy, as a sense of visual appeal,

a sense of credibility, and the impressions we start with begin in a visual way. Before we begin reading any sentences, any word by word phrases, we are already making assumptions about a text based on this.

Design, right? So the one to the left may be super brilliant and super well written, but it's because it's more formally presented, more informally presented. It seems less credible. Perhaps the one on the right might be nonsense, utter gibberish even. But because of the format, we have this impression coming into it that it's actually maybe more substantial than or more serious, or more important than the text on the left, right. So we're making visual judgments before we begin discerning the quality of the textual information.

Another case in point from non academic work, right?

The visual is clearly taking up the majority of the space, more than 50% more than 60% probably is purely visual information which can be seen from a greater distance. I begin, sort of making impressions and assumptions based on the visual cues before I begin the engagement with the actual text, right?

So to be able to engage an audience visually and textually, both, we need to understand where they're coming from.

So we do get us have practice with that in a very, very small scale with our teachers. We know the assignment problems. We know what they sort of emphasize in their and their lectures and instruction. So we write to that,

to give our audience what they want, in a very narrow sense,

when we're talking about people we don't know, but are hoping to target in a strategic way,

you know, keeping in mind, you know, sort of Who do I plan? You know, who am I trying to communicate? Specifically, who most needs to hear what I have to share, who would find most value in what I have to share?

Things like running with a gender in mind, or a race in mind or an economic class in mind is part of the process, part of understanding who you're speaking to right, sort of putting your audience, audiences, sort of realities first to sort of say, well, I want to speak to them so I'll understand where they're coming from, so I can better engage with their attending. Better engage their attention.

So thinking more deeply about the various human components of of your audience will help you engage them better.

No one can speak equally well to all audiences at the same time. So no matter how talented you are,

like Martin Luther King, Jr, the most talented orator in US history, had his detractors. Right? He wasn't able to persuade everybody. As powerful as His word was, as his message was, he couldn't speak to everyone equally well, right? Oh, he just couldn't do it, and it's not his fault. He did his damn level best, right? But it's impossible to speak equally well to all audiences based on cultural differences, based on geographic based on geographic differences, educational differences, etc, right? So knowing your audience well means you can speak more deeply to them, but it's more than just demographics. It's also psychographics, so understanding not just where they're from or their age or their racial or cultural backgrounds, but sort of knowing what comes with that, right? So I'm assuming I don't know you all yet, but I'm assuming that as people in your early, mid, late 20s or beyond, you're earlier in your career than I am, right, probably looking to get your first job, or get your first promotion and advancement, or look for a second job that's even more

high paying than what you have currently. So you put you relatively early in your careers, right? So you're anxious about the next steps in terms of your professional lives, which you should be you need to be understandable, and I respect the respect that's where you are. Of course, that's what you'd be. One of your many concerns,

those concerns, which I respect and acknowledge because I'm trying to think about and think about my audience in this video, are not my concerns, right? I have been teaching for 30 plus years. I plan to retire within the next 10 years.

My first job is not my first concern right now, I already got my first job. Already got my second job that's lasted for 20 plus years.

So as a communicator, I'm not foregrounding my my fears or desires or expectations. I'm trying to think through and anticipate yours. So your concerns are, I'm assuming, but hopefully I have, I'm on track, and to a large degree, I'm assuming that your fears are more your next economic step, your next sort of personal steps. Those are in terms of starting off a new family, starting off with a new career, starting off in a new community. Those are not my concern, not my immediate concerns.

Yeah, but my concerns in this moment are not the priority. Yours are because you're my audience, right?

So thinking about the psychology of the audience, not just the demographics of it, it's called psychographics,

okay, so this is the so what I've covered so far is what works, I think, very well for for print and web writing, right or web authoring, what becomes more more more and more consideration as we move towards digital text. So text produced and designed and written for the web, we need to take in mind, then not just the emotional dynamics or the regional cultural dynamics of our audience,

but also their physical bodies, and the capacities and limits of those bodies in terms of their hearing abilities, their ability with vision and dexterity.

Part of if I if I have a manual dexterity issue,

and your website is on my phone, but your website doesn't respond well to a touch navigation, I'm

going to leave that. I'm going to leave your site and go someplace else,

or if I if I'm vision impaired, and you have a lot of images in your site, but you don't have what's called alt tags, which we'll discuss, which describe the content of the image verbally, for screen readers, if your if your website doesn't include alt text to describe images,

and then there's good, there's going to be a reference to the image without information about that image in the speech in the screen reader, I will recognize you're not you're not fully accommodating my needs. I will go elsewhere, right? So writing, writing for your audience means writing for their also for their abilities, or potential limitations to their abilities, in terms of things like hearing, vision and next year. Further, another, another interesting sort of complexity to web authoring

is

fact that, you know, print is a static medium, so once it's produced, once it's edited, once it's approved by the editors, is put on ink on paper, and then put put out on magazine stands, right?

So you find that you pick up magazine, you know, the Rolling Stone issue in New York. You pick it up here, the same issue here in Fort Worth. You put them side by side, and the design, the layouts, the proportions of the elements in relationship to each other, will be the same because they're printed by the same machines at the same time for the same for the same issue. You look at your website on your phone in an airport in New York, you go home to Fort Worth and open up that same website on your desktop, so a much larger screen, it'll look different. The information may be the same, it should be the same, it probably will be the same, but the layout will be different, because the tech will be responding differently to the more the larger screen space. So that's called responsive design. So matter what, no matter what

kind of cup I'm pouring my content into, it will still lay out in a very clear, organized, sensible, readable way, right?

So that'll be done with what's called Media Queries, which will which we will also talk about, once we get the CSS in this class, right? But that's part of it, too. So we want our sites to look at look they won't look the same

on a mobile device as it will on a laptop or desktop,

but we want to look equally good and usability and accessibility, no matter what screen we're choosing to load our or share our content on so the point of all this is to sort of expand beyond our current understanding of audience when it comes to writing, right? Or for many of us, again, different disciplines treat this matter differently.

But if you hear the word audience and writing, and you think of teachers and grading and classmate to peer review, then you need to sort of relax that, or expand beyond that, to think about, well, okay, I've written well for that audience through my education. Now I will think about writing for an audience that's not captive to me by grades or by salary, but who need, perhaps could benefit from what I have to say.

So for our purposes, audience can't be defined as people who don't know you and who don't initially have time

for and or interest in what you have to say. So it's not driven by malice. It's just unfamiliarity. I don't you're a stranger to me.

I don't know that you're smart yet. I don't know that you're not here a good person yet. I'm awfully busy. Thank you.

So what do you so there's real reasons why they're resistant. So how do you get past that? How did you say, Well, hey, wait, there's something I have here. There's something there's something that's worth, worth your time here without being cheesy, without being listen, you know.

Phony salesperson kind of

kind of thing.

So assume then that your audience that you're reaching out to

initially will be resistant to your ideas or hearing you out. So there has to be a hook that gets them to pause so they can, you can get over that hump of the initial resistance, right? So a compelling image,

a novel font treatment, a clear indication, sort of graphically or visually, what the contents about, right?

Those things will say, Well, I don't know what this text is about. I don't know who wrote this, or how how insightful they are. But I see it's about Adele, or I see it's about nutrition, and I care about those topics, so I will read further. I will get past my resistance and take a deeper look into the text. So assume that they don't know you yet. They don't trust you yet. They don't know you're you're insightful yet, so you're that you're funny yet, that you're a good, caring person yet. So you have to get to find some ways to pause them, to arrest their attention, just for a moment, so that they will get so you can get them over that initial, initial hump, right? So that's our audience is, as there is the the mass of the population that we're sort of targeting

demographically, psychographically,

and engaging in some legitimate, honest, sincere, literal, visual ways to get them to hear us out. Because their initial the initial impulse will be they don't have time to hear us out. So web authoring is one way to really learn these skills. I think it's important for web authoring itself, but also probably not a bad thing to take back to your more traditional learning practices. Okay, we'll talk more. Thanks. Applause.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
