Okay, so we in past sections of this video, this larger tutorial, we've covered the relationship between tagging and scannability, and then we've gone beyond that a little bit too. So let's now talk about the last concern of scan ability, which is listing. So they're they're fairly simple, and they have their own sort of tags to make them visually work. But let's go ahead and create our first list. So I'm tabbing down. I created a couple of additional paragraphs real quick just by copying pasting the above, and I'm tabbing down between the last two paragraphs. I'm creating one small paragraph with the text that says, This is my first list. Then I'll type in my list item, like the content of my list I'm okay, so let's sort of see what happens here. So here's my let's go zoom in a little bit. Here's my image, here's my links. Here's what I just typed. So this is in his own paragraph, which makes sense. Here's my list content was not showing up as a list yet, even though they've been broken up into individual lines here. So we need to create that. We need to tag this appropriately. So it does so the browser knows this is actually content that needs to be listed properly. Let's make a bullet list first. So a bullet list tag is UL, pl, central list. The bullet stands for unordered. And I'll put that down here. There's a closing tag after the list. We need to tag the individual list items with an LI list item li to separate the items from each other, to distinguish them from each Other.

So I used the UL to create the larger bulleted list formats. Then I distinguish each list item at least bullet points, rather with the li tags, opening and closing tags. So let's look at that. So there we go. That's much more listed. List, list worthy. List, list appropriate, so the UL is on ordered list. So these, it doesn't matter what order these appear in, so they're all important, but they're not essential in any sort of specific order. But if you want to make it a numbered list, you want to call it an O L for ordered list. So all you have to do is change the use to o's and the opening closing tags here,

and then the bullet points become numbers here. So this is the last concern of scalability that we'll talk about in these videos. We'll come back to scalability in different contexts later on. But notice by if it's getting the page, it's easy to sort of see this information being offset, being bowed down to the essential phrasing is the essential takeaways, the essential action steps. But also notice that it does break things up in a nice way. It does create some white space, which then allows us that, as this is empty, so I don't need to spend much time here. I'll focus then on this area over here, where the listing information is. So this is breathing room. This is information I don't have to process, which is a relaxing space that allows me then to focus on some easily ingestible information here. So we will move on to other matters, but this is the end of the HTML discussion. We'll get into more advanced stuff as we go. I.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
