Okay, so this builds on the last presentation about the reading gravity and how the how we need to take into account the patterns that are that the reader's eyes will likely take as they as they work their way through our web content, the visual information on the web page. So I'll color and images affect then the pathway the eye takes. So this again, this way. This is based on the F pattern and also the layer cake pattern we talked about in last presentation, right? So it's designed to anticipate the user will use the content in this way, or consume the content in this way on a backlit screen. So it's actually fairly simple. The preparations that we can do with the web content is actually fairly straightforward, stuff you can probably do anyway, which we're doing it with a more conscious, more deliberate, more sort of user friendly interest in mind. So the F pattern and the letter kick pattern, we'll call that, you know, the eye is scanning the page, not reading carefully left to right. So that we're trying to improve scan ability. So scan ability is improved through some fairly simple but essential, and I can't say that enough essential formatting tricks, not tricks, but but techniques. So things you know how to do with Microsoft Word will also apply here, but you have to be more intentional and more thoughtful now than you have been previously, because for most of you, you're not used to writing in a web environment, so the shorter paragraphs that we're accustomed to headings and subheadings in a way that we're not always we always need to put into practice on paper, bold face and color to put the push key information and bulleted or and or numbered lists to sort of foreground and the the takeaway salient information, right or or the the fundamental steps that the paragraphs above are recommending.

As a writing teacher for 30 plus years, I've come to especially, and for some reason, maybe especially, with TCU students, or at least TCU undergraduates, they love their long paragraphs. So I'll have a paragraph from an essay that is like a whole, the whole short, short essay written as one paragraph. So three, three pages as one paragraph, a longer paper where we have the first paragraph is a page and a half, so knocking on 500 on 500 words, um, that is not respectful of the reader's attention, and on a paper environment, certainly a paragraph of that length will not simply not be read. If it's not if it's not chunked up in smaller steps visually, then the the the text will not be consumed. So the the practice is the recommendation is to keep your paragraphs 100 words or less for web content. So think about user behavior, user experience, what the user's options? Bureau site requires a lot of fatiguing labor to define the important information. If it looks like looks like work, it's very easy for the user to find other information elsewhere formatted more appropriately to engage their interest. Because we're in an interactive medium called the web, we really need to be sensitive to keeping the attention of our audience right? And that means, like keeping them in your site, if your site is laborious to get through, it's very easy to go to other sites that may be as interesting as relevant, but less laborious to get through.

Okay, headings and subheadings are helpful, and they really help to then visually foreground through the outline and logic of a page, and also makes it more scannable, because I can read the heading the subheadings to make sure, yeah, this makes sense to me. This is actually seems pretty logical and pretty clear and pretty smart. I'll go ahead and dig deeper into the text itself to begin to appreciate the the individual points the author is making bold facing. Color helps to distinguish things from each other, but bold faces especially draws attention to key concepts or keywords, right? So a whole paragraph is bold faced. Is basically not bold facing because nothing is being emphasized. So bold face text is used for emphasis. So certain key words, certain key statistics, certain key concepts, might be best formatted in bold face so that again, if I'm reading quickly, if I'm scanning your headings and subheadings and largely skipping over your. Body paragraphs. If I while I'm skipping your body paragraph, I might see a bowl or that you're building, and I might I'll have a greater sense of some more detail from the from that paragraph itself, so that there's an encouragement then, well, this is pretty, pretty thoughtfully laid out. I see my I see some key points being mentioned here or referred to here through my scan, I'll spend some more time and read further into the content. And lists are good because they sort of, they boil down the essential information of a page or of a section of a page. Bullet points just kind of like might be the most salient. You know, you have your bot, you have your heading and subheadings and body content. And then as part of your conclusion, you might have, for certain sections, anyway, a bulleted list to kind of say the key takeaways are. Key takeaways are one, two and three or bullet, bullet, bullet. So, just so we can sort of see, I'll read I'll read the I'll read the sub subheadings and headings. I'll come down and land on the bullet list, which is all very easy to read because it's very short, very condensed. Then I'll say, well, that's actually pretty interesting. How do they get there? I'll go back and read the paragraphs. Numbered lists are as easy to set up with HTML, and they kind of give a process, you know, action steps, procedures are best put into, but again, that's information that's boiled down to is essential that's put into, best put into number lists, but they are easier To scan than blocky paragraphs. Okay, so again, nothing difficult, technically, conceptually, things you already know how to do, I'm sure, with Microsoft Word, but it becomes fundamentally important, a matter of deep respect and a matter of accessibility for all users, not just those who may have certain limitations visually or auditorily, but all users will be scanning your site again. They don't know you yet. You want them to stick around. You need to prepare the content before they arrive, so that they will be encouraged to stick around. So you want your resumes to be read right. Resumes tending to be formatted in such a way to assist and encourage further reading. Same principle here, especially if you're building, as you might for this class, a portfolio of your work. You wanted the portfolio to augment and support and give a dramatic illustration of the work, the fine work you've done or are doing. I need to think about how the user is coming to the experience, so I'll stop talking for now, but we'll get back to things shortly. I.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
