Speaker 1  0:04  
Steve, hey friends and neighbors. Just a few quick things to touch on as we begin our  Work for Week Four and the final project of the course. So if you'll give me one moment, what I've been available to you is my version of essay that I wrote shortly after my brother died as the content of the larger essay broken into sub pages with images embedded in each page. Navigation is responsive, as we've said it before. So it goes from a row to a column on mobile, it has the features of the both flex and grid put to a purpose for my purpose. So we have the navigation here that is reproduced in my example, by the by the feature buttons here, these are more just images for decoration and context, but they don't they're not linked to anything currently. So I think this is certainly more sophisticated than what we did for week one by a good bit, right? So the contents, I feel pretty good about. The navigation is making sense. The images are also contextually relevant, but visually, it still doesn't look so professional. So I will through the course of the videos of this week, I will, I will go through through three major improvements, one, to the navigation itself, to make it more, even more responsive. I'll improve the way that the images are handled and the way their size, know the text is handling sized, and then ways to check for accessibility concerns that we may we may have missed. And thirdly, then we can go do some file management and file preparation in our local folders to get that ready to go. Okay, so question, pressing the file shown finder button will take you here to your local view your local folder. So this is grown quite a bit since you last had a peek at it, but this is then the files for my sample site I just shared with you. So what I want to do next is preserve these for further refinement for week four, then also then archive the current version in week three. So I have week three here. So I'm going to just do is copy highlight all the files currently in the root folder. So I'm doing Command C to copy all the files that I have highlighted. Can I go into the Week Three folder and then Command V to paste? So I have two duplicate versions right now, but now we can update these files here to reflect the week four refinements. Okay, so we need to have two copies, so one archive version in week three, and then one editable version will use for week four, which is available here. Okay, so let's, let's get into even more advanced, responsive navigation, right? So.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
