0:00  
You. Okay, so let's get started on the week four tutorial one, and it should be enhancing responsive navigation, because we've already have responsive navigation in place to a degree, but it's an older way of doing responsive navigation. We have a more contemporary way that uses what's called the hamburger, right? So you'll see that in this materialize in this video. Just one thing to keep a note, we'll have to do what's called more frank encoding. Instead of getting a whole structured html page of content that will copy into our own projects, we'll need to sort of assemble and replace things more piecemeal, right? So going slowly, going carefully, step by step, is really kind of important to make sure things are functioning properly before you go on to the next step. Make a small change test. Making the next small change test as we quote, unquote, Franken code, or piece together outside code into our current project, right that you're gathering the outside code, the code that you're gathering here. So you'll notice that this does not get a full HTML page because you already have one set up for your home page. But this gives us a way of rebuilding our navigation. We're not starting from scratch the way we have before. We're modifying what we have currently with what the code sections of code we're finding here. Okay, so really move very slowly. Control Z, or Command Z, will take you back a step, or two or three or four, if you need to undo some changes you've made. And you also things go really south in your local files, you always have your repo, your archive version and Week Three to to refer to you as well, to call back on prior versions of your site. Okay, so let's open up the project in VS code.

2:00  
Okay, so we have, we have the archive version here in week three. We'll ignore Week Four for now, and then we'll play with these files here, right? So we have, and the other your files will be named differently than mine. You'll, you should have an index file as your homepage, like I do, should also style that CSS file. Okay, so let's start with our homepage, and let's update the navigation. We're really just updating my lines, 14 through 24 so 10 lines. So I'm gonna so these are the links that I have for my current version of the Week Three projects. So my current draft, basically, of my remediation project. What I'm going to do is clip out the nav and the UL opening tags and then the UL and the closing tags. So I'm just leaving the list item, Link, HTML content here. Okay, so let me go. Let me tab down below. Tab down further to make some room for the new nav section. Situation. Okay, so I'm grabbing the code here from the tutorial, and I'm pasting that in the blank space I have here. I'm

3:26  
deletes what's came out the list items that are from the what we just copied. So I'm deleting this item content from what I just pasted in, and then going to replace it with the content that I had from before. And if I have duplicate versions, I can just get rid of the ones outside the ul tags. So copy this, cut it out, and then paste this between the ul tags. Okay, so this part right here, so you can see the screen is not vastly different. We have the UL has it as it has a class called Nav menu attached. The navigation itself has a main, main nav class attached. And then there's other things called ARIA labels in place, right? So an already label here are over here. So our audio labels are for accessibility purposes. Are used for accessibility purposes. So when screen when screen readers and encountering a form, a form element. So you can think about a Contact Me form, or some sort of feature like that. You use an ARIA label to identify what that feature is supposed to accomplish, right? So, so let's before we. We deal with the CSS. Let's look at what things let's review how things are looking so far. Okay, so some additional content came over with the copy and paste from the tutorial. There is the my website, and then there's this, this checkbox, which we don't ultimately want, right? This is not professional looking and just redundant and not helpful. So that's taking that's happening inside the nav, just below them, the main nav tag. So the div class equals logo, right? That content there. I'm gonna go ahead. Go ahead and clip that out for now, the white square should go away once we start adding CSS, so we'll see if that, if the CSS will be borrowed, takes care of the white of the white square. I'm

6:03  
so we'll copy this, and then we'll double check to make sure it's not redundant with what we have already in place. So let's go ahead and copy this, which is thinking in terms of mobile first. So it's a good thing, it's a helpful thing. So that'll be going to our CSS file. So I'm going to paste it at this very top, and then we'll check to see if anything's redundant.

6:42  
I'm okay, so doing after a quick scan to make sure there's no redundancies that will be conflicting down the road, I don't see any. Let's see if the body has been defined elsewhere. For example, I'll just do a quick page Command F to see if the word body is showing up. Martin wants it doesn't. Let's see if main nav does. I'm main itself will, but main nav shows up just once. Okay, so this is probably not redundant, so we made a small change. We've added some, a few lines of CSS. Let's see if that makes made any difference to our so it's changed the background to gray, which is a problem, but we will address that. Okay, it's putting the it's moving things to the right. Still has a little check box will work to further deal with so the background color is coming here. Is here from the main nav. So let's change that. I'm gonna change that to my primary colors, which is hashtag for d1, 979, just one hashtag that helps. Okay, the easy fix so you may have to change your background color here, depending on which how your original Week Three project was set up.

8:08  
So let's continue. So I'll make some more space between why just pasted in and what I had from before, and we'll add in some more CSS from the tutorial. Step Three will create the hamburger as promised. So I'll put that below the first paste of the day, and we'll see what happens. There. Still may not be taking place yet, but we'll we'll see what happens.

8:42  
Oh, okay, so the pesky little square turned into a hamburger. It's just a element that's doing nothing right now, nothing happens when I click on it, but the toggle, the toggle square, the checkbox that we had here is now what's called a hamburger, right? So we are step making baby steps towards this being a drop down menu for for the navigation bar. Okay, so this is what we just pasted in, hide the check box. So that was taken care of by the by the display, none in the main toggle, create the burger icon itself.

9:34  
So now we need to add some of it more to have it actually combine this content inside this element that have the animation of the opening and closing, so a bit more

9:56  
basic net again, beneath one of the two blocks I pasted earlier. In this tutorial.

10:07  
So now we have a hamburger and no navigation at all. Or do we? We have it showing up behind the patient. Okay, so I will make that. I'll fix this really quickly, but this is it is functioning as just the elements going behind, behind the banner image. So it's dropping down, but it's being blocked by the hero graphic. So don't be too scared. So we talk about two dimensions. We talk about the x and y axis of two dimensions, right? So, vertical, horizontal, we've discussed we're so we're talking about X and Y axes in that in that context, well, because we're also dealing with possible layers of content, text on top of images. For example, we're talking about sort of a 3d space, not super deep or rich or broad space, but still, there's if you talk about drop shadows, if you're talking about layers, layering text on images. We're talking about going into the Z axis, so we're going towards the viewer, so the pictures in the background, text is in the foreground. You can say that the Texas is moving towards you on the z axis. So by adding a large number here to the Z index in the nav menu, we're basically pulling it, playing it well, well in front of the background picture, which was dipping, dipping behind in the the original tutorial, the original example. So here's my navigation, right? So it was there. It's been there all along. It's just it was being it was going behind the image, instead of in front of the image. From this off. It goes behind the image. Turn this back on, it should now go in front of the image. Okay? So the number doesn't need to be as big as 1000 so 100 would probably still have the same, effect.

12:28  
But we just added, we just positioned the drop down navigation animated, animated feature, the drop down piece of it, we pulled it forward towards the viewer a little bit, so just to make sure it doesn't compete with or go behind the background image in the hero itself. Okay? So it's working, and it's working in mobile, which now notice how that really declutters the space, and so then it's an element that people will be familiar with from other web use, right? So it's not a new feature entirely for for most, if not all, of us, we know what to do when we when we encounter one of these. So it's a little button that's a clear feature that's that's allows us then to sort of open up or close back down the the navigation for the mobile view, but we don't need that same feature here. It's not bad to have it here. It's not awful. We still know what to do, but this could be filled in more sensibly. So let's have this return to more of this kind of navigation in the purple box with the next bit of CSS. Let's move to step five, and then we'll get things to work differently on desktops and other kinds of tablets. So we'll set up the media query section. Okay? So just paste that. Actually paste that at the bottom of the page. So we already have a media query section, so let's go ahead and paste it beneath our at the very bottom, beneath our previous media query section. And let's test that, and we'll discuss what's going on. So we have it spelled out more fully in the desktop view, but then we get down to a certain width, which is probably 768, we have the hamburger show up. Still works, I hope, yep, still works in the homepage doesn't work on the sub pages yet, because we have to make these changes in the sub page as well. But in the homepage is. Working nicely. Okay, so let's go ahead and make that change then. So the CSS is all in place for this tutorial. We went through step five, or onto the key takeaway. So we've got the code we need from this tutorial, which now wasn't very much, and we're all pretty familiar with a couple exceptions, like ARIA labels and Z index and a few things we haven't touched on before, but not too bad overall. And so let's then, while we're here, the CSS is fine, let's go ahead and grab just the nav section of the of the home page of The index page. So I'm going from lines 1538, I'm so copy that from that we just got working on our index page, and replace that on each of the sub pages. So just in just the nav content.

16:21  
So base definition now work, and it is So go on to the Next page. I'm

17:22  
the same this sub page. So all the pages should work now in terms of the hamburger navigation on mobile, which is the primary view right the original view we're designing from here out. So notice we started developing this first before we went on to this responsive feature.

17:49  
So we will spend the next video on images and typography. So I'll meet you there. You.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
