0:05  
Hey, friends and neighbors, welcome to the final stretch from further steps down the rode towards the final stretch or the final the finish line. We have our site as we left it, as we left it last time, as we worked on our images and our thumbnails and all that good stuff for responsive image design, but now we're going to work on typography. So we'll work first on the the h1 and the hero graphic and the paragraph of the hero graphic. We'll make improvements along the way in terms of legibility, in terms of professional look, in terms of all that good stuff. Okay, so one thing to keep in mind, we have a tutorial here as before, but what we'll do in this case is be a little more. We'll take smaller steps and not and not grab all the content at once. So yeah, the ability to copy the content here and one click for this tutorial. Don't do that, please. We need to get rid of some code before we paste in their new code. So we don't want to create overlaps, redundancies or conflicts by adding this new content here. We want to replace some content instead of adding to something entirely. Okay, so I'll prompt you what to grab when, but don't be doing a full so don't be doing this right here on this tutorial. It's a nice feature in general to have for coding on a website, not appropriate for this tutorial. Okay, so let's go ahead and look again. We have h1, and P, so a heading, text and paragraph, text as styled specifically for the hero graphics. That's what's being determined here. So what I suggest you do before you begin anything is find your own references to each one, hero h1 on your pages. So I'm doing Command F on my control. If I do search, type in Hero dot, hero h1 and sort of see how often that comes up on your page. For me, it's coming up twice. One has to do with the positioning to the right of the content, so being right justified, basically, the other one has to do with font sizing, right and so both hero one and both hero hero h1 and hero Peter, side by side here, which is nice in our example here, they're both what we want to replace in this next step. So I'm gonna leave the leave the positioning statement alone. So don't touch this. I'm just highlighting this to indicate we're not we're not leaving the position relative in the text align right. We're leaving that alone instead we're getting rid of the font sizing and bottom margin CSS for hero one and hero p here, so simply clip out and delete entirely that section. Okay, so now grabs the basically the top half of all of the of the first step of the current tutorial. So the comment is fine the hero, h1 h2 make sure you're getting the closing Curt bracket or the closing curly brace. To copy all this here to the top, just the first half, and paste that into the space we just vacated here. Let's look at the effect of the new CSS before we talk about what, what's it's doing. So it's already larger. It's larger still than before. Both the h1 and the P are both larger, but notice it is responsive. So it wasn't responsive before, but it is now. It was sized helpfully in both cases, but it wasn't responsive to the browser with here. So we're using a new kind of approach that we haven't encountered before or haven't talked about before, but it's actually very time saving once you get the hang of it. So we're using what's called clamp in both cases. So in the parentheses here we have we have three different numbers, three different measurements. Think about one ram, one REM as being the standard default default font size. If the standard font size is. Uh, 12 pixels, for example. So that'd be one REM equals 12 Pixels. Then two REM would be 24 pixels. It'll be twice the size of this, of the of the standard font size. So then four, four REM would be four times 12 would be, what, 4848 pixels. So this is a range here. So it's going from from twice the default font size to four times the default font size. It won't grow indefinitely. It'll stop after a certain point and not get larger. Okay, the number in between, then that's basically saying try to keep it at 5% of the browser with so but, but don't go larger than four REM, or don't go smaller than two REM. As not 5% the whole statement. It's 5% that each character, each character should be, should be no larger than 5% of the browser width. So it's not the whole word that's taking it taking up five VW, five 5v or which are 5% of the screen. It's each letter. So this by itself should be no should be ideally 5% this by itself should be ideally 5% and the same thing that applies, then to the font, the Paragraph Font size. So not a paragraph throughout, but just the paragraph that's appearing in the hero tag. Give that three so 3% instead of 5% per character, but don't dip below 1.2 times the default font size, and don't go larger than two times default size, so little more to process. But what this does in the big picture, and the more you use it, the more beneficial it becomes, is that you don't need to have a separate media query. You're just kind of saying, this is the media query here, right? This is like saying that gives you a range to gives the browser a range to work within so instead of two separate CSS statements above the media query and below the media query, we have the one statement handling both both extremes of that range. So it's more fluid, right? Because it knows what to do in between, which is kind of cool. So that's what's happening, both here and here. So let's go on to the next part of step one. Let's do this other P by itself. So let's see where this because right now, the paragraph text that we have should resume, should rearrange, in terms of the browser with but the sizing itself doesn't change. So notice how the browser resizes the the hero content, but the content is not being resized. It's being relineated but not resized. Let's

8:10  
affect the paragraph styling for for all the content in the whole site that's tagged as P and make it responsive as well. And that's we're also using clamp, right. Okay, so I do right here first that's going to copy the peak curly bracket. Go back to my code and do this fine as a final place for that. So I have this here, which basically is an old version that I want to replace by this. And again, it's using clamp to make it the font responsive. So I'll clip out the global paragraph sizing and paste in what I have, just this one part of step one here. Then I go to do my review, and I as if it does, does begin to resize once it gets down to a certain size, right? So, nice and big, increasingly small. Okay? So the same, same principle in place that we, that we put, that we use for the hero P and the hero h1, we're setting up a range of values with an ideal in between. Okay, this one probably doesn't apply wholesale, so we'll for this last step of step less part of step one. I'm going to leave this alone actually, so I'm going to basically skip this last step entirely. So again, it's important. The baby step so we can go, we know not to introduce code. We don't. So we simply don't need, okay,

10:10  
so one improvement that we can make next, which will affect both the main content but also the sub page content and positive way, in a consistent way. There's some padding going on in this paragraph here, but it's not the margins like we set up for the homework two for your second week exercise, which was much something, much more attractive, right? Okay, so let's go on to first section of step two and just get the first statement. Okay, so copy that here first, but then let's do a search for.sa hyphen text, and that shows up twice. So this is background color and padding, so let's leave that alone. So for essay text, the max width and the margins have not been set up previously. So this will be new CSS for this sheet, so nothing needs to be replaced on the essay text side of things for main, let's see what we have for main, and this will show up several times. Okay, so we do have instructions for margin and max width for the main page. Okay? So this is what we want to replace, but we can replace this. So make sure it says max width, margin, padding line, right? So there's a lot of mains being referenced to seven total. Make sure you're using the right one. The one is just main by itself. That says the Max was 800 pixels. Let's kill that and then replace that with what we just copied and see what happens. Wow, that's a big difference. That's a nice difference. So the so we have all expense in a second. We have nice, healthy margins that do should rescale so they're smaller here, larger here, keeping the reading pathway manageable. So if it's stretching the whole width of the screen, might become harder and harder to read on big screens, but this kind of keeps a nice little column in the middle for the content. But also we should see the same sort of effects consistently across the sub pages too. So notice how the text is showing up in the same same column. Yeah, yeah, that's a nice consistency.

12:48  
Okay, so what's happening here is kind of interesting, but again, it's super efficient in terms of eliminating a need or reducing a need for the secondary media query. So So for both essay text, which is the content here, the content here on the homepage, and for then the text in the main section, which is the body content of the sub pages. So this is the main content here. This is the essay text content here have the maximum width of a line of text be 65 characters. So the optimal line length is 65 characters, so letters, but also spaces and punctuation too. So not just not just alphabetic letters, but also punctuation and even spaces too. So and then, once that has been set up, then automatically adjust the left just left and right margins accordingly. So automatically scale that. So here the assumption is these lines are not going to get longer or much longer, but over the ballpark of 65 we still adjust our margins accordingly. So it's also responsive. Then it's automatically adjusting based on how many lines or how many characters are being used per line. And then what's nice here, because these two, these two tags have been combined into one. All the body tags, all the important body tax is being styled the same. Back to our front end tutorial. So we have then the p tag revisited here. So we changed the paragraph CSS to make the font size responsive, which we did in step one, so we don't want to replace this now with what's here. In step two, we wanted to just simply add to it what's not currently being used. So line heights already been established. We don't need to copy this. Here. So we want to copy just the margin bottom, which will create nice sort of space between paragraphs. So I'm adding a third line then to what currently is in place. So it'd be a small change, but it would be a helpful change to make the text even more reader friendly. Okay, so one more here, and let's sort of see what's what's being said for the for body in general. So this is just for the major body box, which the visible content of the page. So again, it's not a matter of setting up, replacing what's there. We're going to add to what's there. So all the body CSS is introducing is just a choice of font family which may be different than mine, which but you can use what you want to there. What I'll do here then is just copy what's between the curly brackets,

15:58  
which will purportedly improve contrast of text to the background. Well, looking pretty good, looking pretty, pretty readable. If you skip this step, I won't be I won't be upset. We won't worry about this one. It seems a nice, nice feature, but it's a concept we don't need to talk about right now. So

16:31  
okay, so on to step three, and we have some more probably replacing to do more so than adding whole new sections. So dot nav, searching it for dot nav, hyphen menu for specifically the a the anchored link content. We have no declaration about the font size. Let's see what this looks like first. So let's go ahead and let's see in the font size. So now grabbing the entire statement and replacing with what's there, replacing what's there, we're just getting the the font size clamp statement. Okay, so in this case, we just added this one line, line 130 for me, using the same clamp logic for font size. So go another go no smaller than nine, 9% 90% of the default size. Go no larger than 1.1% times the font size, and ideally keep the characters 1.5% of the viewer width. So the size has been reduced here a little bit, but not in a way, the compromise legibility, because the purple and white still works pretty well here, but that also should then affect the mobile so it should get smaller as we go larger, smaller, quite smaller still, but still legible. Let's do the same thing for each twos. So let's go. I don't have h2 outside this one references and V. I'll go ahead and add it to what the heck, since it doesn't exist, I'll add it to what's there. So I'll go here. I'll go near the top. That's maybe where I read it, just below where I redefine the the P,

18:53  
well, do the same thing for each three. I'll go ahead and do the whole those two next sub steps. Okay, so a lot of these changes that we're making are not immediately apparent, but they are improving the improving the overall, sort of global display of the content.

19:18  
So these two are becoming larger or smaller. The streets, if we use them, will become larger and smaller. So let's see what we can do with the captions, which is the text, the text beneath. So let's see what happens here. So that's how the caption text is showing up currently. Let's see what comes up with caption. So

19:49  
so this should be this caption. Here, this, this the equivalent in our CSS, is the fig caption, the figure caption. So this is the figure cap. Capture underneath the media query. So we'll take this out entirely. Let's see. Let's just take out the font size part of it, so we're reducing the complexity there. We'll find the other reference above.

20:29  
We'll get rid of what's here,

20:39  
and we'll replace it with the larger, more comprehensive statement here.

20:50  
So let's see what that does here. So nothing is available there, but let's see what happens if we turn this off. I'm

21:04  
so this, this version should not be, probably not going to be responsive. It's not changing size, but if we added the thing back in place that should be responsive now, well, subtly So, but still a little bit it's getting smaller. It's getting larger. Okay, so we're getting close, not too much more to consider, okay? Display text then we can skip. We're not going to worry about that. Okay, so we'll do the same thing for the responsive Spacing section in step four, just quickly, same method. We'll look for the what's going on, going on by not here by itself, not hero shows up six times. We'll see if it shows up separately. So we have in the hero just by itself. We have padding right here. So let's change that to here, and it's replacing, I'm sorry, just the one line, the one line from here, from this tutorial. We'll replace the last line here. So the turn this off for a second to show the it's a little more spacing between one more spacing both top and bottom, and left and right. So without the new CSS, with the new CSS, right? Okay, so you'll notice next example, we're dealing with padding, which is the bubble wrap inside the inside the container, we have two clamp statements, right? So the first clamp statement affects the top and bottom, so adding this range top and bottom, and the second is left and right. So instead of having padding top, batting padding bottom, having this value and then having a next line saying, padding left, padding right. Have this value. You just say, you just combine it in this way. So the first, the first value is top and bottom, the padding that goes on top and bottom, the second value is the padding that goes on left and right. So let's see what we have without features to to affect the gap. So that would be the statement here. So if we're dealing with pickle, if we see pixels, that means what's being set up as an absolute, fixed sort of dimension. So not not pixels are not a fluid there's their sets. They're determined. So let's change that one line here. Make sure you in the right place, and change the gap statement here. And just to remind ourselves what the gap is doing in the display, the grid display, we'll

23:59  
turn this on and off so it's the space between the cards. So that's that's cleaner, slicker, more organized looking than this is okay. So this next one we're skipping. So if you're if you've closed your CSS, I know you haven't watched the videos over this section here. We'll then we'll check check out next to see if we can make improvements there. So feature hyphen link. Okay, let's go ahead and skip this too. Again. The Baby Steps are important to make sure we're not creating redundant or overlapping, or worse, conflicting CSS. But also the space ups are important because we then we won't be adding unnecessary CSS too, because there are important one size that I skipped.

24:59  
This. So because the instruction here has been specific to the needs of our site, not to the details of the actual letter of the tutorial, when I add the secret, a secret sort of session here to sort of see if you're following along with the tutorials closely. So here's a secret approach that I don't know will work for everybody. So I'll need to hear, for those of you who discover this, the secret secret content, I'll have you report back to me if it works or not. But we have a feature here. We have not explored that. I think it's time in the course to explore. So we have some a lot of CSS here. It's working nicely for our final product project we're not done yet, still wanted to play with. So I'm going off script here in a way that will add improvements to those who are sticking with me with them through these videos, as a special treat for those who who had the stamina and fortitude to see through all the course content. So the gap has been set up in the cards here, through the line we just added and features, right? But what I don't like, especially in the context of the nice margins here for the essay text section, so there's no white buffer zone left and right of the cards or the card section of the feature section. So I'm going to add one line here. I don't have the code in tutorial, but only the screen out to let you copy it. And that adds some responsive margin, left and right, top and bottom to to the feature section. So even narrows got margin, even wide has got margin. So the line you want to focus on, but type in yourself manually, it's an addition to the dot features, the dot features, CSS is this right here, and you

27:14  
can put, you can put those values, but those the syntax, the logic should be the same, and that's going to answer so The gap, the line above the gap line creates the spaces between the cards, and then the the margin, then sets space between the edge of the of the browser window to the set of cards, in general, left and Right, top and bottom. One more easter egg, which is a super secret easter egg, which is an experimental one. I'm not sure it'll work equally well for all students, because I have a different kind of account than you all have. There's this kind of mouse icon here, which you, I'm sure you played with before. Notice before that will open up copilot, which is a feature and GitHub that's relatively new but allows for AI assisted coding. So let's do some cleanup. Let's use, so set, I believe your model set to 3.5 if you have the option here, choose, you can use, you can use whatever you want to. But if you have the option, choose agent. So this can be used in a variety of capacities. But right now, because we've been working with CSS, CSS primarily on this tutorial, throughout this last few weeks of the course, really, there's a lot of content here. Is doing some very wonderful, some very cool things for our site. But also it's getting a little bit unwieldy as a copying pasting is going on. So we try to try to clean that up a little bit today by being a little more intentional, but there's probably still some redundancy that we can capture That's right. So the issues that that my copilot agent will will identify may not be the same ones that you'll see, but I want to show you the kinds of prompts you might use to help clean up your CSS, and by cleaning it up, makes it more easily read and more easily maintained down the rode with your I would choose have The CSS file visible here in the code code pane. Set the agents to the cloud 3.5 so I'm telling you, making no changes.

29:35  
Review my CSS or redundancies.

29:47  
Okay? Agent code can get kind of bold and brazen and make decisions for itself sometimes, so I'm reeling that in by saying making no changes, so don't, don't change anything. Just identify if there's any redundancies in my CSS. You. Hit return and see what comes up.

30:12  
Okay, so again, what's my feedback here may not be identical to yours, because you've been coding your own project. I've been coding my own projects, so our choices along the way have diverged at some point, inevitably, which is totally fine. If our sites are to our satisfaction, it's not a problem. But our code doesn't need to be identical at this point. It probably certainly won't be by this point. But the prompt that I I want you to play with, this prompt here making no changes, review my CSS for indices and sort of see review what it says, right? So I have duplicate image styles that have sort of creeped in over time. I have multiple margin declarations.

31:09  
I have some media statements that have been redundant and stuff, okay, and there's there's more. So this is totally your option. There's good reasons to value what AI can do. There's reason to be suspicious of what AI can do. So what you can do, if there's one thing that you want to you can have it. The what is finding is numbered. So this, this, like my number one is, is, is clearly a conflict, right? This is competing CSS here. Let me go ahead and say resolve number one. Let's see what happens. The red will be what will be deleted, the green will be what will be added instead in this place. So the changes are here to be made, but you you have the you have the option to accept them or to keep them or to reject them, so to keep them or undo them. So because this is past my test, I'll go ahead and hit keep. Then it cleans up my code for me. So then I'll go back to the previous section and then look at number two. Okay. It says my margin bottom for my P is unnecessary. So I'll go I'll say, go ahead and resolve two. So uh.

32:45  
So there are checkpoints that you should take seriously. It'll you can ask it to pause or not make changes and just identify potential issues, which I just did to start the session off. But then also, then I had the option then to review the suggestions that they made, but also then actually accept or reject the coding changes it's willing to make for me. So this sounds good to me, so go back and review three. I'm

33:21  
going to skip three and then go to four in my case. So this is probably one problem that has occurred for you too, possibly that you have multiple at media statements. So I'll say a resolve for my step four and yours might be different. So Don't type in four if yours is number number three. So again, AI can be super efficient and super helpful, and it can be super wrong or super not get what you're asking it, or it's good to explore how it can possibly help you, but it's like an over eager intern sometimes where it really means well and wants to do more than you're asking it to impress you, but it's doing something that you don't want ultimately. So admire his talents, make use of his talents, but also give it some review before you accept his output, so that you're sure that what is suggesting you do or doing for you is what you actually want to have done. So mine seems to have hung up. It could be a network issue. Could be a number of issues going on, so I'm going to pause, pause the request, ask if it's been hung up. So you just kind of stuck. Basically, I let's see if that gets a so just asking for more time.

34:55  
There we go. So it's consolidating the app, media statement.

35:08  
Yes, so there's a good bit of stuff here that is redundant, so I'm going to go ahead and keep that. Okay, so there's more I could do, but I think that that kind of proves the points again, the changes that I'm seeing, that I'm making, will not be the changes that you likely need to make, which is fine, you know, make the changes. It'll be helpful to your CSS, not to my CSS. So don't follow my instructions here, my or my precise props to the letter, but you get the idea of how I'm approaching it. That's I'm trying to model the approach more. So thank you. Precise instructions here. I.

Transcribed by https://otter.ai
